OOPS 
Object Oriented Programming 

OOPs - computer programming model that organizes software design around data or objects, rather than functions and logic. 

An object can be defined as a data field that has unique attributes and behaviour. 

The main aim of OOPs is to bind together the data and the functions that operate on them so that no other part of the code can access this data 
except that function. 

OOP focuses on  the objects that developers want to manipulate rather than the logic required to manipulate them. 

Benefits of OOPS 
1. Beneficial for collaborative development, when projects are divided into groups. 
2. Additional benefits of OOP include code reusability, scalability and efficiency. 


1. What are the structure of object-oriented programming?

Structure or building blocks of object-oriented programming include the following, 

1. Classes 
2. Objects 
3. Methods 
4. Attributes 

2. What are the main principles of OOP?
Object-oriented programming based on the following principles. 

1. Encapsulation
2. Abstraction 
3. Inheritance 
4. Polymorphism
5. Syntax 
6. Coupling 
7. Association 

3. What is encapsulation?
The encapsulation principle states that all important information is contained inside an object and only select information is exposed. 
The implementation and state of each object are privately held inside a defined class. 
Other objects do not have access to this class or the authority to make changes.
They are only able to call a list of public functions or methods. 

4. What is Abstraction?
Objects only reveal internal mechanisms that are relevant for the use of other objects, hiding any unnecessary implementation code. 
Abstraction seperates ideas from specific details. 

When you extract the functionality into a function, 
the details are abstracted away, and the code that uses the abstraction can express the idea of what's happening without repeating the details.

5. What is inheritance? 
Classes can reuse code and properties from other classes 

6. What is Polymorphism?
Polymorphism allows one piece of code to have many behaviors. 

Polymorphism comes different forms.
1. Function overloading -> Where the same function call can mean different things depending on the argument type. 
Overloading is called "ad-hoc polymorphism" because it isn't really a general solution.

2. Subtype polymorphism -  where code operating on a supertype can have different behavior based on the specific subtype the code is using at runtime.
One way to represent subtype relationships is with a class hierarchy. 


3. Parametric polymorphism - Which is achieved using generics. 
Generic code uses type parameters to allow writing one piece of code that works with different types,
and concrete types themselves are used as arguments.

We want a language constructs that was designed to represent capabilities of types without the details of how the capability works. 


